#summary Our plans for cut, copy, and paste support

= Introduction =

The Architect has gone 5 years without implementing the standard cut, copy, and paste clipboard operations. This page details how we plan to fix this problem.

= Copy and Cut =

By using Swing, some things already support clipboard operations:
 * Text fields

We should also add support for copy (but not cut) on the following items:
 * Anything you can currently drag into the playpen:
   * Source databases
   * Catalogs in source databases
   * Schemas in source databases
   * Tables in source databases
   * Columns in source databases
 * TBD: should it be possible to copy an index, index column, relationship, or relationship mapping?

We should add support for cut and copy on the following:
 * Anything in the playpen that can be selected
   * Tables
   * Columns
   * Relationships
 * What about the OLAP playpen?
   * We should be able to apply all the same ideas to it as the relational playpen. The more that comes "for free" because of the way we've implemented things, the better.


= Paste =

The meaning of the paste operation has to be decided when the paste happens, based on context. In Swing DnD nomenclature, we talk about "Data Flavors" accepted by the target of the paste operation, which could be inside another Java application, or native applications on the system that's hosting the JRE. Let's enumerate the possible scenarios:

== Text ==

== An Architect Playpen ==

== Another SQL Power Swing app ==

=== MatchMaker ===
=== Wabit ===