#summary An outline of planned releases for the Power*Architect. *****THIS DOCUMENT IS A WORK IN PROGRESS*****
#labels Phase-Requirements


= Introduction =

This document intends to outline the details of future planned releases of the Power*Architect. Details included planned features, bug fixes, and enhancements, and estimated release dates.



= Details =
== Release 0.9.11 ==

=== Changelist ===
  * An easier-to-use executable (.exe) installer for Windows users
  * A new Installation Guide
  * Framework to support multiple langauges.
  * Item selection is now synchronized between the DB Tree and the Playpen. When something is selected in the Playpen, its corresponding item is selected on DB Tree.
  * Feature to check availability of newer releases
  * Undo/Redo now work with relationships, including moving connection points, and straigtening lines.
  * Option to hide certain types columns
  * Ability to change the colour of tables and their text, and the ability to display them with rounded edges.
  * Auto-scrolling for the Playpen
  * Ability to reverse the direction of a relationship
  * Ability to focus on either the parent or child table of a relationship from its right-click menu
  * Ability to delete columns when columns and relationships are selected at the same time
  * Ability to align tables either horizontally or vertically on the Playpen
  * Ability to delete items by deleting their corresponding node in the DB Tree
  * Added restore window size preference on start
  * Relationships now change between identifying and non-identifying when foreign key columns are moved in or out of the child table's primary key.
  * Ability to select all child tables of a particular table in DB Tree
  * Expand all and collapse all options on the DB Tree
  * List of source connections in the top menu bar now updates properly
  * Columns in the Playpen are specially marked if they are a primary key, a foreign key, or an alternate key
  * Added work-around for Oracle JDBC driver bug: Reverse engineering Oracle databases no longer performs ANALYZE TABLES operation!
  * Bug 1548: BLOB and CLOB no longer specify precision/size in Oracle DDL
  * Bug 1542: Column insertion point correction during addition/removal
  * Bug 1301: Sorting tables by date in the Profile Manager now works properly
  * Bug 1580: Sorting tables by date is done dynamically during profiling
  * Bug 1161: Tables are now created in the correct location after changing the zoom level


== Release 0.9.12 ==
=== Proposed Changelist ===
  * Bug 1274: SQL Runner runs out of connections if running SQL Statements repeatedly (reproducible on PostgreSQL 8.x). Possible alternative is to switch to another SQL tool, ex. SQL Workbench
  * Bug 1040: Disable precision and scale options in the Column Editor for column types and platforms that don't support them.
  * Bug 1588: Fix Print Dialog
  * Bug 1099: Add Labels and text regions. Also allow labels to be associated with particular tables.
  * Bug 1139: Open up connection properties dialog if trying to connect to a database with incomplete connection parameters
  * Bug 1070: Allow specifying of physical names for database objects
  * Bug 1371: Visualization of indexes. Suggestions include colouring, a separate 'index' checkbox column, or a column tag (like the PK and FK tags)
  * Bug 1441: Fix SAXException when canceling loading a project
  * Bug 1510: Automatic update checking (and downloading?)
  * Bug 1512: Implement a proper DDL Preferences GUI
  * Bug 1553: Allow enabling/disabling foreign key constraints
 

== Release 1.0 ==
=== Proposed Changelist ===
  * Bug 945: Implement critics/proofreaders system
  * Bug 1180: Datasource settings in the application should update to recognize changes made to the pl.ini/xml file done done externally from the Power*Architect
  * Bug 1181: Stop using SQLExceptionNode
  * Bug 1313: Add feature to view contents of a source database table (ex. right-click menu option in DB Tree)
  * Bug 1184: Properly implement support for views, and have Compare DM feature distinguish between the two
  * Bug 1316: Driver class doesn't auto-update according to the class name you clicked in the JDBC driver package view
  * Bug 1231: Automate release process as much as possible (May also consider converting the build process to use Apache Maven)
  * Bug 1233: Save Exception stacktraces in the project file
  * Bug 1051: Use Undo/Redo facilities to determine if a project has unsaved changes
  * Bug 1062: Make sure Undo/Redo facility works properly on all operations we want it to
  * Bug 1109: Allow Compare DM on a subset of a data model
  * Bug 1110: Support multiple Playpens in one project
  * Bug 1112: Add a database connection progress bar and spinning icon
  * Bug 1114: Modify DDL generator to use Compare DM. This makes conflict resolution by dropping objects unnecessary
  * Bug 1126: Allow editing names of tables, relationships, and columns by just clicking on them in the Playpen
  * Bug 1132: Allow altering column type, precision, and scale without using the properties editor. Suggestions include a minimalized properties toolbar, or a right-click menu option.
  * Bug 1156: Parent property should be maintained only by parent objects
  * Bug 1168: Check consistency of formatting in Compare DM-generated DDL statements. (spacing, indentation, etc)
  * Bug 1179: Support for refreshing source databases
  * Bug 1190: Allow case-sensitive Compare DM
  * Bug 1192: Use different cursors for create table and create relationship
  * Bug 1234: Properly display exception messages in profile PDF reports
  * 1277: Implement a Connection Monitor that shows all open connections, statements run through them, and what state they are in.
  * 1297: Retain profile data types when loading profile results saved in the project
  * 1316: JDBC driver class should update according to the classname selected in the JDBC driver tree
  * 1326: Allow user to choose whether or not to save username and password fields in DB connection settings
  * 1329: Add option to show only schemas owned by the user (especially for Oracle and SQL Server)
  * 1334: Use validation framework in the SQL Power Library to explain why Compare DM is disabling the Start button.
  * 1342: Add a feature to allow users to compare data of subsets of tables.
  * 1344: Make PDF export progress bar fill up more accurately.
  * 1351: DDL should not specify precsion with Image and Text data types when Forward Engineering to SQL Server
  * 1354: DDL validation should catch foreign keys with no columns (perhaps something for the critics/proofreaders system?)
  * 1372: Allow selecting target catalog when creating Kettle jobs
  * 1381: Fix license formatting on installers
  * 1388: Make sure absolutely NO windows have the Java coffee cup logo in the top left corner
  * 1393: For PostgreSQL, ignore precision of DATE data types when doing comparison
  * 1394: Do not show Compare DM statements that have no effect
  * 1398: Add top N values to the HTML report
  * 1403: Allow drag-n-drop in the Playpen to copy objects (with a modifier key)
  * 1432: Cleanup CoreUserSettings Preferences API
  * 1433: Allow the user to toggle column hijacking
  * 1434: Fix corrupt CSV reports when profile data contains CSV characters (commas for example)
  * 1436: Adding new columns to a table with existing relationship
  * 1439: Add critic to monitor for relationships with no columns
  * 1450: Reverse engineering a TIMESTAMP column from Oracle should return the TIMESTAMP data type
  * 1451: Reverse engineering a UTF-8 column from Oracle should set the column length to number of characters, not number of bytes
